# MQTT Transport

_(c) AMWA 2018, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

This document describes the use of the MQTT transport.

Other sections can be accessed from the [Overview](1.0.%20Overview.md).

## 1. Introduction

* Simple and lightweight
* Broker based
* Can be used on top of TCP or WebSockets
* Can use encryption
* Supports various QOS settings for message delivery
* Inherently solves the problem of late joiners using retained messages
* Events filtering is handled by the broker with topic filtering mechanics

## 2. NMOS Resources transport

NMOS resources using MQTT will use the `urn:x-nmos:transport:mqtt` transport.

## 3. Connection management

Only IS-05 connection management is to be used for connection management of resources defined in this specification.

### 3.1 broker_topic

The `broker_topic` parameter holds the MQTT topic and will always be set to the source id, prefixed with `x-nmos/source/` for easier filtering.

For a sender, this value is intended to be static. This means the IS-05 constraints should list the static value in an 'enum' for this parameter.
For a receiver, an empty constraint object may be appropriate for this parameter.

### 3.2 ext_is_07_rest_api_url

The `ext_is_07_rest_api_url` parameter represents the URL to the Events API resource which offers the current state and type of an event emitter (source) (see [Events API](6.0.%20Event%20and%20tally%20rest%20api.md))

For a sender, this value is intended to be static. This means the IS-05 constraints should list the static value in an 'enum' for this parameter.
For a receiver, an empty constraint object may be appropriate for this parameter.

The use of "auto" is not defined for this parameter.

Example of IS-05 PATCH request on a receiver:

```json
{
    "sender_id": "9f463872-9621-4939-aa3a-dc3c82d8578b",
    "master_enable": true,
    "activation": {
        "mode": "activate_immediate",
        "requested_time": null
    },
    "transport_params": [
        {
            "broker_topic": "x-nmos/source/9f463872-9621-4939-aa3a-dc3c82d8578b",
            "ext_is_07_rest_api_url": "http://hostname/x-nmos/events/v1.0/sources/9f463872-9621-4939-aa3a-dc3c82d8578b/"
        }
    ]
}
```

### 3.3 Disconnecting/Parking

A disconnection IS-05 PATCH request should always trigger the receiver to unsubscribe from the associated `broker_topic`.

## 4. QoS Settings

MQTT publishers are recommended to use the QoS (Quality of Service) level `exactly once (2)`.

## 5. Late joiners

MQTT publishers are required to send the `retained message` flag with every message in order to solve the problem of late joiners.

Consumers (receivers) have a choice to either use the retained message or query the late joiners API using `ext_is_07_rest_api_url` to access the latest state of an emitter in order to get in sync.

## 6. MQTT _WILL_ message

All event emitters (MQTT publishers) should send an `MQTT WILL` message upon first connection to the MQTT broker.
This should be the `connection_lost` message described in [Message types - The connection lost message type](2.0.%20Message%20types.md#14-the-connection-lost-message-type).

## 7. Broker discovery

The default MQTT broker should be advertised via the DNS-SD service type `_nmos-mqtt._tcp`.

Each DNS-SD advertisement of this service type must be accompanied by a TXT record of name `api_proto` to indicate the transport protocol underlying MQTT.
A value of `mqtt` indicates MQTT over TCP/IP, while a value of `secure-mqtt` indicates that the service instance is using TLS on the port.
